# Lecture 5
## Threading II
### 3. Mandelbrot set visualizer
(For this problem, you submit only the final code, not the intermediate steps)

1. Create a thread pool with an optimum number (N) of threads in the pool. (You may have found the optimum number from Threading I Problem 1 (h), if not use any number > 1)
2. Your task is to render the mandelbrot set (either in the screen or in BMP files)

   2.1 If you use BMP files, save them in the a directory ./output/ relative to your program, and save consecutive images with names: 01.bmp, 02.bmp, ...

   2.2 If you wish to render it (and believe me this is more fun), you may use OpenGL and/or SDL.

3. You will be using thread safe queue to push tasks for the thread pool.
4. For rendering each frame, conceptually divide the screen space into M rectangular parts, and push that information to the queue. Now your queue would be populated with M tasks.
Note: You need not set M = N. M < N would underutilize the thread pool. However, if you experiment a little you may find that some M > N may be more performant.
5. The result of the computation can be stored in a shared global buffer and directly rendered by OpenGL. Here you don't need to lock the global buffer because, each thread writes to an independent portion of the buffer while rendering a frame.
6. First, draw the mandelbrot set with center of screen focused at point -1.4+0i and scale 10^-2 (i.e. 0+0i to 1+0i in the mandlebrot set takes 100 pixels).
7. For each frame, you follow the following procedure:

   7.1. In the main thread, divide the screen to M rectangular regions.

   7.2. Set a global counter (made thread safe using a mutex) to 0.

   7.3 Push the tasks (i.e. info about regions) into the queue

   7.4 Threads from thread pool, pop a task from the queue, complete the computation and atomically increment the global counter by 1.

   7.5 The main thread waits for the counter to be equal to M i.e. it waits for all task on the queue to be complete.

   7.6 If you are rendering to BMP file, save the buffer into a BMP file. And if you are rendering to screen, tell OpenGL to render it to screen.

   7.7 If rendering to screen, wait for any keyboard input and then scale by a factor of 2. i.e. divide scale value by 2. If rendering to BMP, you need not wait for any input.

   7.8 Stop after scaling 14 number of times.

8. (Optional) If you implemented screen rendering, its not too much of a task to allow panning and zoom in & out. For that use three shared global variables: scale, translationX and translationY. After rendering each frame, the main thread waits for a key press and depending upon the key, changes the three values.
```
| Key | Operation              |
|-----|------------------------|
| a   | decrement translationX |
| d   | increment translationX |
| s   | decrement translationY |
| w   | increment translationY |
| k   | scale := scale / 2     |
| l   | sacle := scale * 2     |
```
